+++
title = "Opportunity without Organization: Labour Mobilization in Egypt after the 25th January Revolution"
date = "2018-06-01T00:00:00"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Christopher Barrie", "Neil Ketchley"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Mobilization*"
#publication_short = "In *Moby*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Prevailing understandings of labour protest and strikes take as their focus stable democratic settings where autonomous trade union structures are an established component of the organizational resources available to workers. We extend the analysis of labour mobilization to a radically different context: Egypt in the year of the 25th January Revolution, when workers mobilized en masse in the absence of union leadership. For this, we use a catalogue of 4,912 protest events reported in Arabic-language newspapers. Our findings point to evidence of cross-sectoral demonstration effects in contexts of political disorganization — local and national mobilization advancing both labour and non-labour demands is associated with subsequent labour protest. This speaks to the value of understanding labour protest and strikes not as delimited domains of action but as parts of a wider universe of contentious politics. In addition, state-level signals of opportunity and shifts in economic conditions are also found to pattern the incidence of labour mobilization."

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["deep-learning"]

{{% staticref "files/mobypaper.pdf" %}}pdf{{% /staticref %}}

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2997517"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
url_custom = [{name = "View journal article", url = "http://mobilizationjournal.org/doi/abs/10.17813/1086-671X-23-2-181?code=HJDM-site"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/mobylogo.jpg"
caption = ""

+++